# Migration from grocy 3.0.1

## Database
Your database will be automatically upgraded to the latest not-grocy version.

## Plug-ins
Plugins that only add server-side php code still work without problems (this includes barcode lookup plugins).

Plugins that touch frontend code are incompatible. Contact the plugin author for support. 
Unfortunately, due to the way grocys views and their associated scripts work, it's impossible 
to continue supporting these scripts and improve the speed of the UI.

## Developing not-grocy

If you want to migrate your plugin to not-grocy, that's awesome! Here's a (somewhat complete) list of what's changed.
Feel free to 

### Frontend

- **Javascript needs to be compiled before it's run**. Use `gulp build` for a development build, `gulp live` to
  watch for changes and recompile when you save a file.
- `Grocy` is now a full class and is able to have instances of itself. 
   One such instance is `window.Grocy` (also known as root grocy). Components and views get passed an Object
   that works like this Grocy Class, however it *may be scoped to a part of the DOM*. Components and views
   are passed a selector for this scope as a second argument, or null if they operate in global scope.
- All frontend classes must respect scoping or must not use id attributes that may be not unique. Because that is
  incredibly hard to tell with chained modals, it is best to scope jquery.
- **Many helper functions have changed places**. This includes the `(Get|Update|Remove)UriParam` functions as well
  as some functions that previously were defined multiple times in views.
- Much duplicate functionality has been extracted to functions, which are now mostly in `FrontendHelper`. 
  **This is a class now**. If you want to monkey-patch it, you need to add to its prototype.
- FullCalendar has been updated to 4.4.2
- yarn has been updated to yarn2. If you have a recent-ish yarn, this shouldn't affect you, if not, upgrade: `npm i -g yarn`
- Styles are now compiled sass files. `grocy.css` has been broken up into parts.
- `FindObjectIn...` style functions were removed. Use `Array.find()` or `Array.filter()` native to es6.
- localization is compiled during `gulp build` and loaded from a file during runtime. You need to provide your own
  translations and translation files or recompile with `gulp makeLanguages`, if your plugin needs localized
  strings.
- Grocy configuration values are initialised with a GrocyConfig object constructed in `views/layout/default.blade.php`
- Blade views enforce a stricter regime on where you can override grocy configuration values. Use the new blocks
  `grocyConfigProps` and `forceUserSettings` to add scoped overrides.

### Backend
- not-grocy now respects `Accept: application/json` headers on HTML views and tries to yield the view without
  surrounding HTML as a json object, so that the view can be displayed in their own scope.